:orphan:

.. _migrate-hosting-graphql:

Migrate Static Hosting and GraphQL From App Services
====================================================

.. meta::
  :description: Learn how to migrate GraphQL and your static assets away from Atlas App Services.

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. banner::
   :variant:  warning

   GraphQL and Static Hosting are deprecated.

As of **March 12, 2024** , GraphQL and Static Hosting are deprecated for Atlas App
Services. GraphQL and Static Hosting services will be discontinued after one
year on March 12, 2025.

If you use GraphQL or Static Hosting, you should migrate to other providers
before the services are discontinued. Below, you can find migration guides
for official, trusted MongoDB partners that offer best-in-class alternative
solutions. These migration guides offer step by step guidance for how to
transition off of our services, and have been created in collaboration with our
partners.

GraphQL Providers
-----------------

The following GraphQL providers can help you keep your projects running.

Apollo
~~~~~~

Apollo provides a developer platform and open-source tools and SDKs—including
Apollo Server—to unify your data and services. Apollo Server is a
spec-compliant, production-ready server library that can use data from any
source, including MongoDB Atlas.

Refer to :ref:`Migrate GraphQL to Apollo <migrate-apollo>` for details.

Hasura
~~~~~~

Hasura empowers developers to rapidly build and deploy GraphQL and REST APIs on
MongoDB and many other data sources. By radically cutting down API development
times, Hasura enables rapid access to data, reduces friction across teams and
services, and enables enterprises to shorten time to market on data-powered
products and features.

Refer to :ref:`Migrate GraphQL to Hasura <migrate-hasura>` for details.

Static Hosting Providers
------------------------

The following static hosting providers can help you keep your projects running.

Netlify
~~~~~~~

Netlify provides developers with the platform and workflow to focus on building
websites and apps without dedicating time and resources on labor-intensive
operations. Developers are enabled to build and deploy future-proof web apps and
websites with modern, composable tooling that works with all modern frontend
frameworks. With support for static site generation (SSG), server-side rendering
(SSR) and incremental site regeneration (ISR), Netlify's managed frontend cloud
and CI/CD can support the growing needs of your App Services application.

Refer to :ref:`Migrate Static Hosting to Netlify <migrate-netlify>` for details.

Vercel
~~~~~~

Vercel is a frontend cloud for hosting web sites and apps, including static
sites, single-page applications (SPAs), dynamic server-rendered applications,
and more. It is compatible with your App Services application.

Refer to :ref:`Migrate Static Hosting to Vercel <migrate-vercel>` for details.

AWS S3 Blob Storage
-------------------

If you are solely using the MongoDB Atlas Hosting service as a blob store for
static content and are not hosting a client application, follow the steps below
to migrate from using Atlas Hosting to using your own S3 bucket.

Refer to :ref:`Migrate to Your Own S3 Bucket <migrate-blob>` for details.
